# embodied ai - 2024_09

## Navigation

[Home](https://lixin97.github.io/arXivRadar) / [Papers](https://lixin97.github.io/arXivRadar/papers) / [embodied ai](https://lixin97.github.io/arXivRadar/papers/embodied_ai)

- Part 1

## Papers

| **Title** | **Abstract** | **Date** | **Comment** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **[Language-guided Robust Navigation for Mobile Robots in Dynamically-changing Environments](http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.19459v1)** | <details><summary>Abstract</summary>

In this paper, we develop an embodied AI system for human-in-the-loop navigation with a wheeled mobile robot. We propose a direct yet effective method of monitoring the robot's current plan to detect changes in the environment that impact the intended trajectory of the robot significantly and then query a human for feedback. We also develop a means to parse human feedback expressed in natural language into local navigation waypoints and integrate it into a global planning system, by leveraging a map of semantic features and an aligned obstacle map. Extensive testing in simulation and physical hardware experiments with a resource-constrained wheeled robot tasked to navigate in a real-world environment validate the efficacy and robustness of our method. This work can support applications like precision agriculture and construction, where persistent monitoring of the environment provides a human with information about the environment state.
</details> | 2024-09-28 |  |
| **[MiniVLN: Efficient Vision-and-Language Navigation by Progressive Knowledge Distillation](http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.18800v1)** | <details><summary>Abstract</summary>

In recent years, Embodied Artificial Intelligence (Embodied AI) has advanced rapidly, yet the increasing size of models conflicts with the limited computational capabilities of Embodied AI platforms. To address this challenge, we aim to achieve both high model performance and practical deployability. Specifically, we focus on Vision-and-Language Navigation (VLN), a core task in Embodied AI. This paper introduces a two-stage knowledge distillation framework, producing a student model, MiniVLN, and showcasing the significant potential of distillation techniques in developing lightweight models. The proposed method aims to capture fine-grained knowledge during the pretraining phase and navigation-specific knowledge during the fine-tuning phase. Our findings indicate that the two-stage distillation approach is more effective in narrowing the performance gap between the teacher model and the student model compared to single-stage distillation. On the public R2R and REVERIE benchmarks, MiniVLN achieves performance on par with the teacher model while having only about 12% of the teacher model's parameter count.
</details> | 2024-09-27 |  |
| **[Circuits and Systems for Embodied AI: Exploring uJ Multi-Modal Perception for Nano-UAVs on the Kraken Shield](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.09054v1)** | <details><summary>Abstract</summary>

Embodied artificial intelligence (AI) requires pushing complex multi-modal models to the extreme edge for time-constrained tasks such as autonomous navigation of robots and vehicles. On small form-factor devices, e.g., nano-sized unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), such challenges are exacerbated by stringent constraints on energy efficiency and weight. In this paper, we explore embodied multi-modal AI-based perception for Nano-UAVs with the Kraken shield, a 7g multi-sensor (frame-based and event-based imagers) board based on Kraken, a 22 nm SoC featuring multiple acceleration engines for multi-modal event and frame-based inference based on spiking (SNN) and ternary (TNN) neural networks, respectively. Kraken can execute SNN real-time inference for depth estimation at 1.02k inf/s, 18 {\mu}J/inf, TNN real-time inference for object classification at 10k inf/s, 6 {\mu}J/inf, and real-time inference for obstacle avoidance at 221 frame/s, 750 {\mu}J/inf.
</details> | 2024-09-26 | 5 pages, 5 figures |
| **[AIR-Embodied: An Efficient Active 3DGS-based Interaction and Reconstruction Framework with Embodied Large Language Model](http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.16019v1)** | <details><summary>Abstract</summary>

Recent advancements in 3D reconstruction and neural rendering have enhanced the creation of high-quality digital assets, yet existing methods struggle to generalize across varying object shapes, textures, and occlusions. While Next Best View (NBV) planning and Learning-based approaches offer solutions, they are often limited by predefined criteria and fail to manage occlusions with human-like common sense. To address these problems, we present AIR-Embodied, a novel framework that integrates embodied AI agents with large-scale pretrained multi-modal language models to improve active 3DGS reconstruction. AIR-Embodied utilizes a three-stage process: understanding the current reconstruction state via multi-modal prompts, planning tasks with viewpoint selection and interactive actions, and employing closed-loop reasoning to ensure accurate execution. The agent dynamically refines its actions based on discrepancies between the planned and actual outcomes. Experimental evaluations across virtual and real-world environments demonstrate that AIR-Embodied significantly enhances reconstruction efficiency and quality, providing a robust solution to challenges in active 3D reconstruction.
</details> | 2024-09-24 |  |
| **[ReLEP: A Novel Framework for Real-world Long-horizon Embodied Planning](http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.15658v1)** | <details><summary>Abstract</summary>

Real-world long-horizon embodied planning underpins embodied AI. To accomplish long-horizon tasks, agents need to decompose abstract instructions into detailed steps. Prior works mostly rely on GPT-4V for task decomposition into predefined actions, which limits task diversity due to GPT-4V's finite understanding of larger skillsets. Therefore, we present ReLEP, a groundbreaking framework for Real world Long-horizon Embodied Planning, which can accomplish a wide range of daily tasks. At its core lies a fine-tuned large vision language model that formulates plans as sequences of skill functions according to input instruction and scene image. These functions are selected from a carefully designed skill library. ReLEP is also equipped with a Memory module for plan and status recall, and a Robot Configuration module for versatility across robot types. In addition, we propose a semi-automatic data generation pipeline to tackle dataset scarcity. Real-world off-line experiments across eight daily embodied tasks demonstrate that ReLEP is able to accomplish long-horizon embodied tasks and outperforms other state-of-the-art baseline methods.
</details> | 2024-09-24 |  |
| **[KARMA: Augmenting Embodied AI Agents with Long-and-short Term Memory Systems](http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.14908v1)** | <details><summary>Abstract</summary>

Embodied AI agents responsible for executing interconnected, long-sequence household tasks often face difficulties with in-context memory, leading to inefficiencies and errors in task execution. To address this issue, we introduce KARMA, an innovative memory system that integrates long-term and short-term memory modules, enhancing large language models (LLMs) for planning in embodied agents through memory-augmented prompting. KARMA distinguishes between long-term and short-term memory, with long-term memory capturing comprehensive 3D scene graphs as representations of the environment, while short-term memory dynamically records changes in objects' positions and states. This dual-memory structure allows agents to retrieve relevant past scene experiences, thereby improving the accuracy and efficiency of task planning. Short-term memory employs strategies for effective and adaptive memory replacement, ensuring the retention of critical information while discarding less pertinent data. Compared to state-of-the-art embodied agents enhanced with memory, our memory-augmented embodied AI agent improves success rates by 1.3x and 2.3x in Composite Tasks and Complex Tasks within the AI2-THOR simulator, respectively, and enhances task execution efficiency by 3.4x and 62.7x. Furthermore, we demonstrate that KARMA's plug-and-play capability allows for seamless deployment on real-world robotic systems, such as mobile manipulation platforms.Through this plug-and-play memory system, KARMA significantly enhances the ability of embodied agents to generate coherent and contextually appropriate plans, making the execution of complex household tasks more efficient. The experimental videos from the work can be found at https://youtu.be/4BT7fnw9ehs.
</details> | 2024-09-23 |  |
| **[Dynamic Realms: 4D Content Analysis, Recovery and Generation with Geometric, Topological and Physical Priors](http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.14692v1)** | <details><summary>Abstract</summary>

My research focuses on the analysis, recovery, and generation of 4D content, where 4D includes three spatial dimensions (x, y, z) and a temporal dimension t, such as shape and motion. This focus goes beyond static objects to include dynamic changes over time, providing a comprehensive understanding of both spatial and temporal variations. These techniques are critical in applications like AR/VR, embodied AI, and robotics. My research aims to make 4D content generation more efficient, accessible, and higher in quality by incorporating geometric, topological, and physical priors. I also aim to develop effective methods for 4D content recovery and analysis using these priors.
</details> | 2024-09-23 | Research Summary - DC |
| **[Cog-GA: A Large Language Models-based Generative Agent for Vision-Language Navigation in Continuous Environments](http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.02522v2)** | <details><summary>Abstract</summary>

Vision Language Navigation in Continuous Environments (VLN-CE) represents a frontier in embodied AI, demanding agents to navigate freely in unbounded 3D spaces solely guided by natural language instructions. This task introduces distinct challenges in multimodal comprehension, spatial reasoning, and decision-making. To address these challenges, we introduce Cog-GA, a generative agent founded on large language models (LLMs) tailored for VLN-CE tasks. Cog-GA employs a dual-pronged strategy to emulate human-like cognitive processes. Firstly, it constructs a cognitive map, integrating temporal, spatial, and semantic elements, thereby facilitating the development of spatial memory within LLMs. Secondly, Cog-GA employs a predictive mechanism for waypoints, strategically optimizing the exploration trajectory to maximize navigational efficiency. Each waypoint is accompanied by a dual-channel scene description, categorizing environmental cues into 'what' and 'where' streams as the brain. This segregation enhances the agent's attentional focus, enabling it to discern pertinent spatial information for navigation. A reflective mechanism complements these strategies by capturing feedback from prior navigation experiences, facilitating continual learning and adaptive replanning. Extensive evaluations conducted on VLN-CE benchmarks validate Cog-GA's state-of-the-art performance and ability to simulate human-like navigation behaviors. This research significantly contributes to the development of strategic and interpretable VLN-CE agents.
</details> | 2024-09-23 |  |
| **[SpatialBot: Precise Spatial Understanding with Vision Language Models](http://arxiv.org/abs/2406.13642v6)** | <details><summary>Abstract</summary>

Vision Language Models (VLMs) have achieved impressive performance in 2D image understanding, however they are still struggling with spatial understanding which is the foundation of Embodied AI. In this paper, we propose SpatialBot for better spatial understanding by feeding both RGB and depth images. Additionally, we have constructed the SpatialQA dataset, which involves multi-level depth-related questions to train VLMs for depth understanding. Finally, we present SpatialBench to comprehensively evaluate VLMs' capabilities in spatial understanding at different levels. Extensive experiments on our spatial-understanding benchmark, general VLM benchmarks and Embodied AI tasks, demonstrate the remarkable improvements of SpatialBot trained on SpatialQA. The model, code and data are available at https://github.com/BAAI-DCAI/SpatialBot.
</details> | 2024-09-17 |  |
| **[P-RAG: Progressive Retrieval Augmented Generation For Planning on Embodied Everyday Task](http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.11279v1)** | <details><summary>Abstract</summary>

Embodied Everyday Task is a popular task in the embodied AI community, requiring agents to make a sequence of actions based on natural language instructions and visual observations. Traditional learning-based approaches face two challenges. Firstly, natural language instructions often lack explicit task planning. Secondly, extensive training is required to equip models with knowledge of the task environment. Previous works based on Large Language Model (LLM) either suffer from poor performance due to the lack of task-specific knowledge or rely on ground truth as few-shot samples. To address the above limitations, we propose a novel approach called Progressive Retrieval Augmented Generation (P-RAG), which not only effectively leverages the powerful language processing capabilities of LLMs but also progressively accumulates task-specific knowledge without ground-truth. Compared to the conventional RAG methods, which retrieve relevant information from the database in a one-shot manner to assist generation, P-RAG introduces an iterative approach to progressively update the database. In each iteration, P-RAG retrieves the latest database and obtains historical information from the previous interaction as experiential references for the current interaction. Moreover, we also introduce a more granular retrieval scheme that not only retrieves similar tasks but also incorporates retrieval of similar situations to provide more valuable reference experiences. Extensive experiments reveal that P-RAG achieves competitive results without utilizing ground truth and can even further improve performance through self-iterations.
</details> | 2024-09-17 |  |
